{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf2 From: Kurt Routley <kurtroutley@hotmail.com>\
Subject: FW: UAI 2015 poster presentation information\
Date: June 26, 2015 at 20:57:33 GMT+2\
To: "oschulte@cs.sfu.ca" <oschulte@cs.sfu.ca>\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs32 \cf2 FYI\
\
> From: cmt@microsoft.com\
> To: kdr4@sfu.ca\
> Date: Sun, 21 Jun 2015 11:22:17 -0700\
> Subject: UAI 2015 poster presentation information\
> \
> Paper#: 130; Title: A Markov Game Model for Valuing Player Actions in Ice Hockey\
> \
> Dear Kurt Routley,\
> \
> Congratulations again on the acceptance of your paper for poster presentation at UAI 2015.\
> \
> The conference program schedule has been posted online at\
> http://auai.org/uai2015/schedule.shtml. Please check this schedule for your assigned poster spotlights and poster presentation time.\
> \
> UAI will provide 1000 mm (39'') wide x 1250 mm (49'') high grounded poster boards, ideally suited for A0 posters in portrait. Posters can be put up any time during the day of your assigned session and need to be removed after the session. One of the authors should remain by the poster board during the entire poster session to present your paper and answer questions. \
> \
> You are also given one minute to highlight your poster during a poster spotlights session. You should prepare *no more than two slides* for this in pdf format. Your slides should contain no animations (all slides will be combined into one large PDF document), no non-standard fonts. You have *60 seconds* for presentation including transition, and we will be strict about keeping to schedule. Please upload your slides in pdf format on CMT *no later than July 10 5pm PDT* at https://cmt.research.microsoft.com/UAI2015.\
> To upload your slides, from the Author console under column \'93Camera-Ready | Presentations\'94:\
> 1. Click on \'93Edit\'94 corresponding to Presentation.\
> 2. Click on \'93Browse\'94 to locate the slides file.\
> 3. Click on \'93Upload\'94 to upload the file.\
> \
> Before the poster spotlights session, you will be asked to stand in line in the order given in the schedule (according to paper numbers). As soon as you finish your presentation, hand over the microphone to the next person in line, and exit the stage. To find your place in line quickly, it will be helpful to remember the number of your paper in the schedule.\
> \
> Please note that *at least one author of an accepted paper must register for the conference and present the paper*. For complete information on the UAI 2015 program, please visit http://auai.org/uai2015/.\
> \
> We look forward to seeing you in Amsterdam,\
> \
> Marina Meila and Tom Heskes\
> UAI 2015 Program Chairs\
> uai2015chairs@gmail.com\
}