{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1404\cocoasubrtf470
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww12600\viewh10200\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Dear Kristian,\
\
thank you for your meta-review. We appreciate your constructive suggestions. But, after the previous round of revisions requiring a number of new experiments, we have run out of resources to do more. So we will have to give up and withdraw the paper. We thank you for your very valuable time, and also the reviewers for their valuable time. I think we can incorporate the suggestions in another paper on relational outlier detection.\
\
Since you and the reviewers discussed a number of technical details - which is great - we\'92ll make some brief comments and replies.\
\
1) The paper is mainly about the idea of using statistical divergence concepts to define outlier nodes in a network, a statistical approach to what Hendrik Blockeel calls \'93anomaly detection from interpretations\'94. We do think that the ELD (expected log-distance) metric is a novel effective divergence metric for this problem. But it\'92s more about introducing and validating a new framework than a particular instantiation of it.\
\
2) The cancelling phenomenon can be clearly seen by taking a Taylor expansion of Kullback-Leibler around the KLD = 0 point: the first-order term disappears due to cancelling, and we are left with only the second-order term. This is known before from the proof that KLD has an approximate Chi-Square distribution.\
\
3) On the empirical side, evaluating outlier detection methods is not straightforward because of the lack of ground truth. The AUC improvement on the real-world datasets is substantive. We agree with the reviewers that the AUC improvement on the synthetic datasets is negligible. In our earlier draft we also reported Precision results using Jiawei Han\'92s approach, where ELD comes out much better than KLD (= LR). Perhaps we should have pushed more for keeping Jiawei\'92s metric rather than just switching to AUC. Interesting issue to investigate anyway. }