{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red0\green0\blue0;\red56\green110\blue255;\red16\green73\blue188;
}
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\f0\fs36 \cf2 From: Oliver Schulte <oschulte@cs.sfu.ca>\
Subject: Re: Sports Analytics workshop notification for paper 14\
Date: July 20, 2015 at 9:04:06 GMT+2\
To: Kurt Routley <kurtroutley@hotmail.com>\
Cc: Zeyu Zhao <zeyu_zhao@sfu.ca>\
Reply-To: oschulte@cs.sfu.ca\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardirnatural

\fs24 \cf2 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\fs36 \cf2 Hi Kurt,\
\
thanks for your comments. Can I run a few things by you to help me respond? We could schedule a brief Skype meeting too, I\'92ve got one with Jeffery already tonight.\
\
I checked out some more details about the players, check out my paper webpage with material about this paper and comments. e.g. Jason Spezza requested a trade from the Ottawa Senators! Btw, your salary for Lehtera is inconsistent with Wikipedia.\
\
Reviewer 3: good idea to look at players changing +/- as they change team. Like we would predict that Spezza\'92s +/- will change. I think we can just list this under future work.\
\
Reviewer 2:\'a0\
\
*change Q-learning to \'93Q-value learning\'94?\
\
*Discuss other sports like basketball and soccer?\
\
*fix INTRODUCTION etc.\
\
Reviewer 1: We should check out Alex Diaz\'92 research, maybe reference it.\
\
Mention adjusting for biases in future work. How does looking at away games only help? And how does War-on-Ice adjust?\
\
Look up PDO - have you heard about this before? The reviewer is missing the fact that the MDP automatically considers shots when evaluating the impact on goals. That said, it could be interesting to take shots as the reward function to see how it differs from scoring.\
\
Another misunderstanding about penalties: we noted that they can be positive for goal scoring.\'a0\
\
Eye Test: Makes sense but I don\'92t see the problem. We have Ovechkin and Stamkos in the top 20. I guess it\'92s because we only showed the top 8 players, not the top 20. I guess we should show the top 20 table. Do we have the top 20 table handy?\'a0Plus it\'92s not about goals directly. Also, the exact ranking may change if we had different standardizations.\
\
As for comparing with possession, I would put that under future work. And for salary, just acknowledge that the rules make the relationship between salary and performance complicated.\
\
Any other suggestions? The paper is in Dropbox.\
\
Cheers,\
\
Oliver\
\
On Jul 18, 2015, at 18:04, Kurt Routley <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:kurtroutley@hotmail.com"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 kurtroutley@hotmail.com}}> wrote:\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs32 \cf4 Congratulations everyone! It looks like the reviewers engaged well with our paper too!\
\
-Kurt Routley\
\
\pard\pardeftab720\sa160
\cf4 \
\pard\pardeftab720
\cf4 From: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:oschulte@cs.sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 oschulte@cs.sfu.ca}}\
Subject: Fwd: Sports Analytics workshop notification for paper 14\
Date: Sat, 18 Jul 2015 17:37:51 +0200\
To: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:zeyu_zhao@sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 zeyu_zhao@sfu.ca}}; {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:kdr4@sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 kdr4@sfu.ca}}\
\
We got in!\
\
Oliver\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf4 \
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
Oliver Schulte					E-mail: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:oschulte@cs.sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 oschulte@cs.sfu.ca}}\
Simon Fraser University			Phone: (778) 782-3390\
Associate Professor				Fax: (778) 782-3045\
School of Computing Science		Web: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~oschulte"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~oschulte}}\
TASC Building	9021			Work Schedule: see home page\
Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6\
Canada\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs32 \cf4 \
Begin forwarded message:\
\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\b \cf4 From: 
\b0 Oliver Schulte <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:oschulte@cs.sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 oschulte@cs.sfu.ca}}>\

\b Subject: Re: Sports Analytics workshop notification for paper 14
\b0 \

\b Date: 
\b0 July 15, 2015 at 23:00:01 GMT+2\

\b To: 
\b0 MLSA15 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:mlsa2015@easychair.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 mlsa2015@easychair.org}}>\

\b Reply-To: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:oschulte@cs.sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt 
\b0 \cf3 \ul \ulc3 oschulte@cs.sfu.ca}}
\b0 \
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1 \cf4 \
Hi Jan, Albrecht and Jesse,\
\
thank you for the good news! I\'92ve registered already. Will work on camera-ready asap.\'a0\
\
@Jesse: nice paper relating Markov Logic Networks to defaults!\
\
The notification was a bit earlier than I expected, which is great, but: I had meant to put in a good word for the NHL drafting paper that I reviewed. Defend it against some of the objections. I guess I\'92m too late now?!\
\
Cheers,\
\
Oliver\'a0\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs24 \cf4 \
-----------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------------\
\
Oliver Schulte					E-mail: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:oschulte@cs.sfu.ca"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 oschulte@cs.sfu.ca}}\
Simon Fraser University			Phone: (778) 782-3390\
Associate Professor				Fax: (778) 782-3045\
School of Computing Science		Web: {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~oschulte"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.cs.sfu.ca/~oschulte}}\
TASC Building	9021			Work Schedule: see home page\
Burnaby, B.C. V5A 1S6\
Canada\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f1\fs32 \cf4 \
On Jul 13, 2015, at 22:08, MLSA15 <{\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "mailto:mlsa2015@easychair.org"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 mlsa2015@easychair.org}}> wrote:\
\
Dear Oliver Schulte\
\
We are pleased to inform you that your submission titled \
\
What is the Value of an Action in Ice Hockey? Q-Learning for the NHL \
\
has been accepted as a long presentation for the Sports Analytics workshop at \
ECML/PKDD 2015. You will have 15 minutes to present your work after which the \
audience gets 5 minutes to ask questions and provide feedback.\
\
You will find the reviewers' comments below. Please take them into \
consideration when preparing the camera-ready version of your paper. If need \
be, your revision can be up to nine pages, excluding references. The deadline \
for submitting the camera-ready version is Monday 27 July 2015. \
\
Please note that at least one author of your paper has to register for the \
conference at {\field{\*\fldinst{HYPERLINK "http://www.ecmlpkdd2015.org/attending/registration"}}{\fldrslt \cf3 \ul \ulc3 http://www.ecmlpkdd2015.org/attending/registration}} to present the \
paper at the workshop. The early-registration deadline is Wednesday 15 July \
2015.\
\
Best regards,\
\
Jan Van Haaren\
Albrecht Zimmermann\
Jesse Davis\
\
\
----------------------- REVIEW 1 ---------------------\
PAPER: 14\
TITLE: What is the Value of an Action in Ice Hockey? Q-Learning for the NHL\
AUTHORS: Oliver Schulte, Zeyu Zhao and Kurt Routley\
\
OVERALL EVALUATION: 1 (weak accept)\
\
----------- REVIEW -----------\
I\'92ve found this to be an interesting application and, to the best of my knowledge, a new area of research within the hockey analytics scope. \'a0The closest research that I know of would be by a Carleton University graduate student named Alex Diaz who has looked at association rules and data mining within hockey, from play by play data. \'a0The use of markov rules to identify the better goal scorers is interesting.\
\
A few things I\'92ve noted and you may wish to consider if you want to continue this research.\
\
One area the research lacks is that inclusion of any modern hockey analytics research or analytics statistics. \'a0Modern hockey statistic research does not move through traditional academia circles but rather on the internet where the research community is very active in blogs and Twitter with their publishing. \'a0\
\
Real-time data is known to be affected by rink biasses where certain areas are known to under/over count statistics (hits, shots attempts) due to human biases (nothing malicious). \'a0Players who have these areas as their home arena will spend half their careers in one area could artificially look better or worse than they are. \'a0This might wash out over multiple seasons but it is worth considering looking at only away games for each player, or adjusting for the rink biases similar to War-on-Ice.\
\
Another field to consider is that goal scoring is a relatively rare event on the ice compared to shot attempts. \'a0PDO (statistic of luck of a player which is the summation of on-ice shooting percentage and save-percentage) can swing wildly between years in extreme cases. \'a0The hockey analytics field prefers to look at shot-attempts for and against to create possession statistics which has shown to be better predictors of future goals than previous goal data. \'a0It could be valuable to use this to predict future shots than future goals. \'a0\
\
Penalties are encoded as a negative value towards player, but a penalty is not always negative. \'a0Receiving a penalty for preventing an odd-man rush or breakaway on your goaltender reduces the chance of a goal against compared to a 5 on 4.\
\
Hockey analytics often uses an \'93eye test\'94 when creating new statistics to show who are better players. \'a0There are players who are well known by the quantitative and qualitative hockey communities who if are not in the top of the results, it should be questioned how accurate the results are. \'a0The previous work this paper touches on (THoR) suggers from this as the authors suggested that Tyler Kennedy was one of the better players. \'a0This immediately caused questioning from the hockey analytics community.\
\
When I see a lack of the two most well known goal scorers in the NHL (Steve Stamkos and Alex Ovechkin - by varying hockey scoring studies and statistics) I have similar doubts. \'a0There are some good scorers in the results being generated, but not the best ones. \'a0It also seems to have difficulty identifying young players who are near their physical peak and are scoring at a more efficient rate (Goals/60) than older players but lack the ice time from their coaches yet.\
\
Comparing the results to the +/- of a player is not ideal. \'a0+/- has shown to hold little weight in the value of a player given how it is counted and under what circumstances. \'a0Better statistics to compare it to might be possession (Corsi, Fenwick, Scoring Chance %) or to relative possession data. \
\
Similarly, comparing scoring value vs salary can be arbitrary depending when the player was signed. \'a0Backdiving contracts can hide true value of players and a player signed for $9Million a year in 2006 under a 55M Cap vs $9M in 2014 under a 70M cap have different weights.\
\
\
----------------------- REVIEW 2 ---------------------\
PAPER: 14\
TITLE: What is the Value of an Action in Ice Hockey? Q-Learning for the NHL\
AUTHORS: Oliver Schulte, Zeyu Zhao and Kurt Routley\
\
OVERALL EVALUATION: 3 (strong accept)\
\
----------- REVIEW -----------\
This is a nice paper, very well suited for this workshop. \'a0The idea of applying on policy reinforcement learning starting from actual game sequences is very simple yet elegant. \'a0The technique is very timely as more and more precise data is being logged in major sports. \'a0I like the overview of related work, although I can not say anything about its completeness. \'a0The idea is so elegant and the results so promising that I am actually surprised nobody has done this before. The authors also show that the technique makes sense and produces very useable ratings of actions and players as a consequence.\
\
Overall, the write up is nice, well executed, except for a few discrepancies that seem to have been caused by deadline surfing. \'a0For example, it is unclear why INTRODUCTION is written using all caps. \'a0Another is the slightly weird formatting of the motivation subsection of the introduction. \'a0Also, just to let you know, I had difficulties printing the paper. \'a0i don't know if this was caused locally, but printing failed on page 5, possible because of the figure?\
\
The use of "Q-learning in the on-policy setting" is a bit weird. \'a0Yes, you are learning q-values, and yes, in an on-policy setting, but Q-learning is the name of an off-policy reinforcement learning algorithm, specifically. \'a0You could replace "Q-learning" with "Q-value learning" if you want to keep the sentence.\
\
It would be nice to see a comparison of how the techniques is specific to ice hockey, even if only qualitatively. \'a0I for one assume that ice-hockey (as a complete layman) assume the technique to fit ice-hockey so well because of team size and game-speed. \'a0Compared to for example soccer, defenders will have lower q-values connected to pretty much all of their actions relative to forwards, as they are less likely to score or give an assist? \'a0It would be nice to have the authors comment on this difference.\
\
\
----------------------- REVIEW 3 ---------------------\
PAPER: 14\
TITLE: What is the Value of an Action in Ice Hockey? Q-Learning for the NHL\
AUTHORS: Oliver Schulte, Zeyu Zhao and Kurt Routley\
\
OVERALL EVALUATION: 3 (strong accept)\
\
----------- REVIEW -----------\
The authors present an attempt to assess player values in the NFL using data from play by play descriptions to attempt to infer the values of indirect actions. \'a0To perform these estimates the authors make use of a Q learning framework to employ Markov games where the actions are play by play occurrences and are associate with a team.\
\
The authors indicate that their results suggest there are cross season correlations of results, especially with respect to goal scoring, which is what you would hope for a model of performance. \'a0The authors also show results estimating the individual impacts of players that seem reasonable (at least from someone with some knowledge of player performance), and show the limitations of current methods such as +/- estimates.\
\
It would be interesting to follow up on these results with studies to determine if the results carryover in useful ways. \'a0For example, the authors could look at players who change teams and look at the effect of changing teams on things like +/- scores that are based partly on the team and see if the results that one would predict from the RL value of players predicts changes to these values.\
\
I would like to see more analysis of the results in any case, the paper seems somewhat preliminary at this point. \'a0But the authors should also be commended for making so much data available to other researchers. \'a0This is a significant additional contribution of the paper.\
\
A few minor wording concerns:\
\
Abstract: "at large scale" -> not sure what this is meant to signify\
\
Intro: "extension of the Markov Decision Processes" -> "extension of a Markov Decision Process"\
\
Page 6: "The procedure is compares" -> drop the "is"\
\pard\pardeftab720

\f0\fs36 \cf2 \
}