{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf1265\cocoasubrtf210
{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
\margl1440\margr1440\vieww47460\viewh23220\viewkind0
\pard\tx566\tx1133\tx1700\tx2267\tx2834\tx3401\tx3968\tx4535\tx5102\tx5669\tx6236\tx6803\pardirnatural

\f0\fs28 \cf0 Title: MRLBase: Multi-Relational Learning with Multi-Relational Databases\
\
Abstract: Statistical analysis of structured data requires building structured machine learning models. We describe MRLBase, a new SQL-based framework that leverages the capabilities of an RDBMS to support multi-relational learning applications. Most previous machine learning applications assume a flat data representation with a single data table or matrix. However, many real-word datasets have a more complex structure, and are often maintained in a relational database.\
Building machine learning applications for multi-relational data requires new system capabilities. These capabilities include both representation and computation, such as: 1) A description language for specifying metainformation about structured random variables. 2) Efficient mechanisms for constructing, storing, and transforming complex statistical objects, such as cross-table sufficient statistics, parameter estimates, and model selection scores. 3) Computing model predictive scores for structured test instances. Our system design represents statistical objects as  relational tables, on a par with the original data tables, so that SQL can be used  to manage them. A case study on six benchmark databases shows how our system supports a challenging and important machine learning application, namely learning a Bayesian network model for an entire database. Our implementation shows that our SQL constructs in MRLBase facilitate fast, modular, and reliable program development. Empirical evidence indicates that leveraging the RDBMS capabilities  achieves scalable learning and fast model testing.\
\
 (over 1M tuples with a single database server). and fast model testing. Large databases with over 1M tuples can be processed with a single server. \
\
[not many details, software engineering virtues: high-level system development, modular, flexible, Performance virtues: fast performance? ]\
\
\
Zhensong: rehearsal after class. We propose using an SQL-based RDBMS as a .\
\
[cross-table aspect]. system capabilities for supporting machine learning. We propose that an SQL-based RDBMS can solve these challenges. Support machine learning tools, not develop them.}